Another reason Spark might have trouble with larger data sets,
is a bad algorithm in your code.
For some calculations, adding data doesn't make it much harder.
Remember when we calculated the daily listening time for sparkify users,
earlier in this lesson.
Spark had to look through every line on the data,
and use the listening time for each record to calculate the average.
Let's say it takes 30 seconds when your data is relatively small.
Now what happens if your data doubles in size,
and you have to repeat the whole calculation?
Since you still have to look at every record once to calculate the average,
the calculation should take twice as long, a full minute.
If it doubled again,
the trend would continue and it would take two minutes.
If you plot the calculation time versus the data size,
you get a nice straight line.
As the dataset increases,
the computational time increases linearly.
Spark can handle this by adding more workers to your cluster,
or simply waiting twice as long.
But for some calculations,
doubling the data doesn't just double the time.
It makes it a lot harder.
In some cases, more data makes the calculation practically impossible.